# Farkle
Assignment 3: Farkle (Part BJ  You are to implement the Farkle dice game you started in Assignment 2 by creating a Visual  Studio Project using your project plan as described in your previous submission.  Your completed Farkle dice game must demonstrate the following:  You MUST implement your program using the following classes, as a minimum, you may  include more (as appropriate for your game design):  • Player class: holds a player's details including their name, score and turns taken. • Die class: holds the current die value, a visual representation of the die and whether it  can be rolled ( or not). • Application file: holds the main() function and controls the overall flow of the game. You may include other relevant attributes and behaviours to these classes, as identified in  your project plan.  The Player must be able to do the following:  • assign a name which is requested at the start of the game and used in the feedback given • choose to roll or score the dice rolled and see appropriate feedback as a result • continue rolling dice until they win or lose the game ■ a win = reaching or exceeding 5,000 points ■ a loss = rolling 3 Farkles in a row • quit the game at any time - during or after a game The Dice in the game should have the following characteristics: • be set to a random number from 1 to 6 with each roll • if the die is selected, it should be locked and unable to roll again • be able to reset the die value to 0 at the end of a turn when the player scores their points • display a rolled value and a locked version (eg: [1] = a rolled 1 and [x] = a locked die) The Game Application must do the following: • display the "how to play" information at the start of the game • create a player and a set of 6 dice • display an appropriate and uncluttered user interface providing relevant information to the player at all times • ask for and allow the player enter an option to roll the dice or score the points • ask for and allow the player to select one or more of the rolled dice • display the updated dice after each roll entered by the player • terminate the game (player wins) when the player has reached or passed the target • terminate the game (player loses) when the player has rolled 3 Farkles in a row • provide player stats at the end of the game (wins, loses and score) • the player should be able to QUIT the game at any time 9  Foundations of C++  Assignments 2 and 3 - Pairs Card Game  Program Reflection  You must also provide a 300-word written reflection of your object-oriented design and how well  you believe it was to implement. You should cover the following areas:  • Discuss why you designed it the way you did. ■ Why did you create your classes that way? ■ How does this reflect an 00 design or approach? • Discuss how well you were able to code it  ■ Highlight any issues you found once you tried to implement your design. ■ How did you resolve these issues? • If you were to do this project again, discuss how you might change your design to make your solution easier to implement, more efficient, or better for code reuse. • The extra functionalities you applied. This must be a Word or PDF document which must be included in the same folder as your *.sin  file. Your document file MUST be named as follows:  "A3-YourFistNameLastName.docx" or "A3-YourFistNameLastName.pdf'.  Extra Functionality  The marking criteria indicates that you should make some individual additions to this in order  to achieve the final 15% of the mark.  Following is a list of additional features you can include, with the maximum number of marks  [x] you can earn for each one. You may implement one or more features from the list, but you  will only score up to the maximum of 15% of the total assignment marks or 15 marks. You should aim to add some additional creative elements to the gameplay, as well as  advanced object-oriented design elements or advanced use of pointers.  • The player selects a skill level (eg: Rookie, Roller and High Roller) which modifies the game parameters - the target score (5,000, 10,000 and 20,000) and the minimum points required to roll before saving points (250, 500 and 750 respectively), etc. [5] • If a player rolls three Farkles in a row (on three consecutive turns) they lose 1000 points from their saved score (can go negative). Once they lose the points the counter for Farkles is reset to zero. If a single player then rolling 3 Farkles in a row will lose the game if their score becomes negative. [5] • Include multiple human players making the game playable by 1 to 4 people. At the beginning of the game the player order must be randomised. Each player must track their own score and display their name and game score when required. One player is randomly chosen to  go first. Players take turns in clockwise order. The game is played in rounds in which each player has a turn to roll the dice and score points. [1 O]  • Display the dice using ASCII art, showing the faces as pips not as numbers. [8] • Allow the game to be saved and restored at the player's request. [8] • Ask the player if they want to be promoted to the next skill level after winning 5 games. If  they accept their skill level is increased by one (to the maximum level permitted in your game). Also, if the player loses 5 games in a row they are automatically demoted one skill level (to the minimum level permitted in your game). [8] • When the first player reaches or exceeds the target score, all other players (in a multi-player game) have one final turn to try and beat that score. In this case, the player at the end of the round with the highest score wins. [8] 10  Foundations of C++  Assignments 2 and 3 - Pairs Card Game  • Have a main menu at the start of the program (includes minimum 5 options) [5]  • A text file includes all extra functionalities that you have implemented can be viewed when an option from the main menu is selected or just displayed when the program starts. [5]  • Allow the game to be played with computer players. The computer player should be able to  make reasonably intelligent decisions for choosing scoring combinations and when to save their points. This Al can be a set of rules that the computer player checks before making a roll or when to save their score. On a computer player's turn, the process should be  automated so that the human player can watch the results. [1 O]  • Implement a more sophisticated Al for the computer players. You may create different player types, each with their own strategies for playing, such as an easy player, a cautious player, an aggressive player, etc. The human player should be able to select the level of difficulty and number of their opponents at the beginning of the game. [10]  You certainly do not have to implement all of the above to earn marks for extra functionality. Just  remember the maximum number of marks you can earn are given in [x]. It is up to you!  Note: All the extra functionalities that you have implemented should be listed in the reflection  reP,ort. Or save it in a text file that can be opened via the P,rogram.  Assignment 3: Marking Criteria [up to 100 marks in total]  Does the program compile and run? Yes or No  50 marks penalty will be a lied for a non-compiling program.  1. Class Design [15]  1.1. Player Class [5]  1.1.1. Has an appropriate header file [2]  1.1.2. Required data members and member functions using meaningful names [1]  1.1.3. Contains only aspects that relate to a "player" (has no data members or  member functions that are not directly related to a Player) [2]  1.2. Die Class [5]  1.2.1. Has an appropriate header file [2]  1.2.2. Required data members and member functions using meaningful names [1]  1.2.3. Contains only aspects that relate to a "board" (has no data members or  member functions that are not directly related to the board) [2]  1.3. Game Application [5]  1.3.1. Has an appropriate header file [2]  1.3.2. Has appropriate variables and functions using meaningful names [2]  1.3.3. The main() function has appropriate function calls to keep it uncluttered [1]  11  Foundations of C++  Assignments 2 and 3 - Pairs Card Game  2. Functionality [40] 2.1. Game set up: initialising the player, game variables and creating a collection of dice  [5]  2.2. Implementation of a clear and uncluttered User Interface display [5]  2.3. Implementation of the basic game mechanics (roll and score) [5]  2.4. Implementation of basic scoring combinations (as shown on table) [5]  2.5. Implementation score tracking and updating as required [5]  2.6. Successful implementation of action processes and feedback displayed to the  player [5]  2.7. Appropriate end game conditions triggered [5]  2.8. A description of How to Play the game: Inform the player what they need to do in  order to play and win the game [5]  2.8.1. This description must be saved as a text file and read into your game when  the program begins [2]  2.8.2. You can also use this as a convenient way to display "help" when the player  asks for it [3]  3. Quality of Solution and Code [20] 3.1. Does the program perform the functionality in an efficient and extensible manner? [12]  3.1.1. Appropriate use of functions and function calls [1]  3.1.2. Appropriate use of data types [1]  3.1.3. Appropriate use of decisions, loops and other programming techniques [2]  3.1.4. Appropriate use of references and/or pointers [5]  3.1.5. Appropriate use of good programming practices and techniques [2]  3.1.6. Extraneous and redundant code removed [1]  3.2. Has a well-designed 00 program been implemented? [4]  3.2.1. Contains classes appropriate to the assignment brief [3]  3.2.2. Program structures support and 00 design [1]  3.3. Has the Programming Style Guide been followed appropriately? [4]  3.3.1. Appropriate commenting and code documentation [2]  3.3.2. Correct formatting of code within *.hand *.cpp files [2]  4. Extra Functionality [15] 4.1. Implement difficulty levels which may be selected by the player [5]  4.2. Rolling 3 Farkles in a row (on three consecutive turns) lose 1000 points [2]  4.3. Include multiple human players making the game playable by 1 to 4 people [10]  4.4. Display the dice using ASCII art, showing the faces as pips not as numbers [5]  4.5. Allow the game to be saved and restored at the player's request [5]  4.6. Ask the player if they want to be promoted to the next skill level after winning 5  games [5]  4.7. All players (in a multi-player game) have an equal number of turns [5]  4.8. Allow the game to be played with computer players [10]  4.9. Implement a more sophisticated Al for the computer players [10]  12  Foundations of C++  Assignments 2 and 3 - Pairs Card Game  5. Reflection [1 O]  5.1. Discussion of motivations for the program design [3]  5.2. Discussion of how well the design was to implement [3]  5.3. Discussion of what they would do differently if they were to start it again [3]  5.4. The list of the extra functionalities you have implemented [1]
